---
title: On Writing
date: 2021-07-22
---

I want to get better at writing. I've considered myself bad at it ever since high school, 10 years ago now. I didn't take it seriously until year 12 where I had to get a decent enough score to get into uni. That necessity didn't translate into results. I don't remember the details but I certainly don't remember learning much. I do remember getting more or less above 12.5/25 and how crushing it was to see the score written in red ink every time. I also remember finishing my essays early to get feedback on them before the due date. Then I would go on to turn that feedback into a fat fail which wasn't very encouraging. I ended up getting that mark I needed by the end of the year and thankfully I haven't written much since. I only needed to write one essay for uni and it didn't go very well.

Last year I started practicing mindfulness and found some ideas that might be worth sharing so I started writing about them. I instantly discovered all the anxiety, frustration and inferiority I felt back in school. It's fitting because practicing mindfulness taught me a lot about these feelings so I ended up practicing while writing. When I was frustrated because I couldn't find the words or the grammar to express what I was thinking I practiced patience and acceptance and remembered to breathe and over the long term it helped.

I think I had the wrong mindset about writing to begin with. It's not strictly about turning ideas into words that people can understand, it's more about exploring different ways to express your ideas. [I write notes](https://cadell.dev/blog/i-write-notes/) to capture my ideas because they're quick and to the point and I've gotten quite good at it. There's no grammar or paragraph structure to get in the way. I've found this style of writing to be helpful professionally because I can quickly articulate things in chats, emails or short documents. I wrote the bullet points for this article in minutes but writing it out is going to take hours. I'm hoping to improve but I also wonder if there's a way to publish bullet points in a way that people can understand.

I certainly don't understand non-fiction books. If you have to write hundreds of pages to explain your idea then surely you've overcooked it, maybe because it was the only way to monetise your idea. I'm probably just salty because I'm a slow reader as well. Hundreds of pages would take me months so it's just not practical for a lot of topics.

I've written most of my Practicing Mindfulness article on Monday evenings from about 6pm-10pm. My girlfriend is kind enough to cook dinner for me that night and leave me uninterrupted so I can do whatever I need to do to get words on the page, usually by pacing around the room. I found if I can write on Monday night it will usually end up with me writing later on in the week as well but it's been slow progress because I'm still writing about it 9 months later. I think a week is too long between drinks so I'm starting a new strategy - work on it everyday. I found this timely article, [the unreasonable effectiveness of showing up everyday](https://typesense.org/blog/the-unreasonable-effectiveness-of-just-showing-up-everyday/) (and [hn comments](https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/27833064)), puts words to some of the ideas I was thinking about. I've started waking up at 6am before work, practice mindfulness with mediation and yoga then write until I start work at 8:30am. Today I started writing at 6:50am so that's about 90 minutes of writing before work.

I've been waking up early for about the last month and it's been interesting. The first week I felt great because I felt like I was doing something new. The next week I started writing an article on [writing notes](https://cadell.dev/blog/i-write-notes/) but I was so tired that I became a bit frustrated and rushed to finish it. I feel like that came through in my writing and that's not how I want to write, particularly at the stage I'm at. Good practice I suppose. This time I'm going to focus on not setting goals and focusing on showing up instead. I think the results will sort themselves out. Summer is on the way so that should help too.



