---
title: On Writing
date: 2021-07-22
---

I want to get better at writing. I'd love to be able to turn ideas into articles and share them with my friends and family and hear what they have to say about them. Instead, my ideas are almost a burden because writing them takes months of frustration that makes me wonder why I'm writing in the first place. There's plenty of room for improvement.

I've been bad at writing ever since english in high school, 10 years ago. I didn't take english seriously until year 12, where I needed it for uni, and that necessity didn't turn into results. Every essay was more or less 12.5/25 and it was pretty crushing to see that red ink every time. I remember finishing some of my essays early so I could get feedback on them before the due date. Then I would go on to turn that feedback into a fail which wasn't very inspiring. I ended up passing and thankfully only had to write one essay at uni which didn't go very well either.

Last year I started practicing mindfulness and started writing about my experience. I instantly discovered all the anxiety, frustration and inferiority I felt back in school. Fortunately, practicing mindfulness taught me a lot about these kinds of feelings so I ended up practicing while writing. When I felt frustrated, I practiced patience and acceptance and remembered to breathe. I think it helped overall. Writing about mindfulness was challenging but I also found it really enjoyable. Maybe because it’s so different from my career as a Software Engineer.

[I write lots of notes](https://cadell.dev/blog/i-write-notes/) professionally and I've been doing it for years. They're quick and to the point and there's no grammar or paragraph structure to get in the way. Notes help me keep track of things at work but this short style of writing also translates well into chats, email and short documents where I can quickly and efficiently articulate things.

Adjusting to longer forms of writing has been difficult. I found myself getting frustrated when I couldn't find the words, sentences and paragraphs to express what I was thinking. Now that I've practiced more, I think that's only natural considering how bad I was to begin with and how little time I've put into it. I'm learning that writing isn't strictly about turning your ideas into words, it's also about exploring different ways to express your ideas.

It's been interesting to explore the balance between brevity and waffling. I wrote bullet points for this article in minutes but actually writing it took hours. I'm hoping with practice it becomes easier but I also wonder if there's a way to publish bullet points in a way people can understand. Somewhere in between a Tweet and an article perhaps. Then books are on a whole other level. Non-fiction books frustrate me because I'm a slow reader. Finishing a book would take me months which just isn't practical for a lot of topics and I suspect some books only exist because they can be monetised. I'm far too terrible at writing to even think about monetisation but maybe that gives my writing some authenticity because I don't have that conflict of interest.

I've written most of my [Practicing Mindfulness](https://cadell.dev/blog/practicing-mindfulness/) article on Monday evenings, from about 6pm to 10pm. My girlfriend is kind enough to cook dinner for me that night and leave me uninterrupted so I can do whatever I need to do to get words on the page. That usually means pacing around the room. I found writing on Monday night made it easier to write later in the week but overall it's been slow progress because I'm still writing about it 9 months later.

I'm starting a new strategy - write everyday. I recently found this article, [the unreasonable effectiveness of showing up everyday](https://typesense.org/blog/the-unreasonable-effectiveness-of-just-showing-up-everyday/) ([comments on hackernews](https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/27833064)), and it puts words to some of the ideas I've been thinking about recently. Just show up, practice consistently and regularly and don't set goals. Around 90 minutes is long enough to get into some deep work and isn't long enough to warrant a break. The next block of work is the next day so work flows between sessions because it's easy to remember where you left off. When other things pop up in your life you can adjust the duration of sessions to cater for them as required. Projects will take as long as they take and you don't need to measure progress against some arbitrary goal. It's neat because it lines up with my mindfulness experience as well.

I've started waking up at 6am before work, practicing mindfulness with meditation and yoga, then writing until I start work at 8:30am, about 90 minutes. Waking up early has been a bit of a transition. I enjoyed the challenge the first week then I became really tired and frustrated the second week. I wrote my article on[ writing notes](https://cadell.dev/blog/i-write-notes/) that week but it felt rushed and I think it comes through in the article. I was goal-orientated and fixated on finishing it quickly and I'm just not at the level where that mindset is productive. It was good practice though.

I’m feeling much better about this article. I thought about working on my [Practicing Mindfulness](https://cadell.dev/blog/practicing-mindfulness/) article since I started it so long ago but this was a fun idea and I want to write about fun ideas. At my level, writing is far more important than what I'm writing so I suppose this is productive procrastination. I'm just going to write every day and hopefully that turns into articles. And if it doesn't, well, at least I showed up. Now that I think about it, Elizabeth Gilbert talks about something similar in her Ted Talk, [Your elusive creative genius](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86x-u-tz0MA) (thanks David for the tip!). What a fun note to finish on.
